Add a migration guide for V3 (#1091)
sumup-oss/circuit-ui: MIGRATION.md

| `SubHeading` | `SubHeadline`                                          |
| `Blockquote` | See the [next section](#typography-component-variants) |

(🤖 _component-names-v3_.)

> _Note: this codemod also transforms other renamed components (see [Other Changes](#other-changes)._

#### Typography component variants

The `Body` (formerly `Text`) component's variants were changed:

| v2              | v3                           |
| --------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `<Text bold>`   | `<Body variant="highlight">` |
| `<Text italic>` | Use custom styles            |
| `<Text strike>` | Use custom styles            |
| `<Blockquote>`  | `<Body variant="quote">`     |

Use 🤖 _body-variant-highlight_ to migrate `bold` to `variant="highlight"`. Note that this will transform your `<p>` elements into inline `<strong>` elements: you might also need to pass `as="p"` if you need a block-level element.

> Bonus: the new `Body` component also supports the `success`, `error` and `subtle` semantic variants. Have a look at the [story](https://circuit.sumup.com/?path=/story/typography-body--variants) to get started.

#### New sizes

(...)

> - Components: the `size` prop has been changed to accept the new size numbers for **Headline**, **SubHeadline**, **Body**. For **Headline** component **_exa_** and **_peta_** has been changed to **_one_** with new values, **_tera_** has been changed to **_two_**, **_giga_** to **_three_**, **_mega_** and **_kilo_** to **_four_**. For **Body** component **_giga_** size has been removed, and **_mega_** and **_kilo_** sizes have been changed to **_one_** and **_two_** respectively. The **SubHeadline** component now uses only one size value (🤖 _typography-sizes_).

Reviewer: I wonder if this would be more digestible as a table.

Author: Yes, it will be one :slightly_smiling_face: Sorry this is still very much a WIP :construction:

## From v2.x to v3

Circuit v3 is a large major release, including long-awaited changes from the full year that passed since v2. This guide will help you upgrade your application. Don't hesitate to contact the [maintainers](https://github.com/sumup-oss/circuit-ui#maintainers) if you have any further questions.

### Accessibility

Any accessible label props that were previously optional are now required and enforced in all components.

> To help identify places where accessible labels are missing (even if an app is built with TypeScript, some configurations will not break the build if required props are missing in JavaScript files), components will throw runtime errors in development at missing labels. Production and testing builds are not affected.

Reviewer: The interjection about TypeScript disrupts the flow of the sentence and makes it more difficult to understand. I'd remove the interjection entirely or reword it to separate the what (throwing errors) and why (no type checks in JavaScript and imperfect type checks in TypeScript).

During the migration and while the missing labels are still being added, you can use an escape hatch to continue running the app in development without throwing accessibility errors.

In your app, expose the `UNSAFE_DISABLE_ACCESSIBILITY_ERRORS` environment variable. You can use the [Webpack `DefinePlugin`](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/define-plugin/) ([here's an example](https://github.com/sumup-oss/circuit-ui/blob/main/.storybook/main.js#L45-L53) in the Circuit UI Storybook config) or, if your app uses Next.js, you can declare the variable in your `next.config.js` ([here's an example](https://github.com/sumup/ze-dashboard/blob/master/next.config.js#L78) in the SumUp merchant dashboard).

Now, if you want to turn off the accessibility errors temporarily, run the development app with the environment variable set to `true`:

```sh
UNSAFE_DISABLE_ACCESSIBILITY_ERRORS=true yarn dev # or yarn start
```

Keep in mind that this escape hatch is not meant as a way to permanently avoid the errors, but as a temporary workaround while the missing labels are being written, localized and added to the relevant components.

> > Note: for the `Input` and `Select` components, use the built-in `label` prop instead of using the `Label` component separately.

Reviewer: This seems out of place. This change was already done in v2. How about this:

```suggestion
> Reminder: For the `Input` and `Select` components, use the built-in `label` prop instead of using the `Label` component separately.
```

Other accessibility improvements include:

- Accessible modals and popovers, see [the dedicated section](#consolidated-modals-and-popovers)
- Semantic heading elements, see [the typography section](#heading-as-props)

### New JSX transform

> Circuit v3 improves compatibility with the [new JSX transfors](https://reactjs.org/blog/2020/09/22/introducing-the-new-jsx-transform.html) (introduced inReact v17).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Circuit v3 improves compatibility with the [new JSX transforms](https://reactjs.org/blog/2020/09/22/introducing-the-new-jsx-transform.html) (introduced in React v17).
```

Author: Oops 🙈

Applications on Next.js and Emotion 10 (Emotion 11 is not yet supported by Circuit UI) can now use the following Babel config:

```json
{
  "presets": [
    [
      "next/babel",
      {
        "preset-react": {
          "runtime": "automatic",
          "importSource": "@emotion/core"
        }
      }
    ]
  ],
  "plugins": [["babel-plugin-emotion", { "cssPropOptimization": true }]]
}
```

> See the [Emotion 10 docs](https://5faaafd0bd0f3f0008469537--emotion.netlify.app/docs/css-prop#babel-preset) for more details on the required config.

Reviewer: Is this required to use Circuit UI or just to use Emotion with the `css` prop in the application?

I'd assume that it's not required for Circuit UI since it's pre-transpiled with these settings.

Author: Ah, maybe that's only to use Emotion with `css`. Would you recommend simplifying the example config?

#### Heading `as` props

> The `as` prop is now required in both the **Headline** and the **SubHeadline** components. Intentionally setting the heading level ensures a consistent and accessible page structure. The `as` prop values was also restricted to HTML heading elements to ensures that heading components render semantic heading elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `as` prop is now required in both the **Headline** and the **SubHeadline** components. Intentionally setting the heading level ensures a consistent and accessible page structure. The `as` prop values were also restricted to HTML heading elements to ensure that heading components render semantic heading elements.
```

Author: Oh my, I think I was getting a bit tired by this point 🙈

> Generally, avoid using typography size tokens. Instead, use typography components directly.

> ### Consolidated modals and popovers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New modal and popover APIs
```

#### Modals

The `Modal`, `ModalWrapper`, `ModalHeader`, `ModalFooter`, `ModalContext`, and `ModalConsumer` components are no longer exported. Instead, use the `useModal` hook to render modals instead.

Modals in Circuit v3 are accessible by default, have a streamlined UI and behavior (dimensions, click outside, etc.) and handle edge cases like modal and popover stacking.

Refer to [the Modal stories](https://circuit.sumup.com/?path=/story/components-modal--base) for usage examples.

#### Popovers

The `Popover` component was rebuilt in Circuit v3. It now uses [Popper v2](https://popper.js.org/) under the hood and comes with a refreshed component API.

More importantly, the Circuit v3 Popover is opinionated when it comes to its usage pattern. It no longer accepts custom children, unlike v2, but rather a list of actions (links and/or buttons).

To migrate, separate the popovers in your application into two types.

Start by migrating any popover resembling a dropdown menu to the new Circuit v3 Popover. Refer to [the Popover story](https://circuit.sumup.com/?path=/story/components-popover--base) for a usage example.

> Most of the remaining popovers with custom children should gradually be migrated to use different UI patterns (for example modals). In the meantime, we recommend creating a local copy of the Circuit v3 Popover in your application that accepts custom children instead of an array of actions. You'll find [an example](https://github.com/sumup/ze-dashboard/blob/master/src/components/Popover/Popover.tsx) in the SumUp merchant dashboard (private repository).

Reviewer: Again, not happy about the link to internal code, though I can't think of an alternative. I like the `(private repository)` label.

Author: Agreed, but should we leave it in this case if we don't have an alternative? I think it could be helpful to people who have access to see how the local component was implemented.

Reviewer: Yes, let's leave it with the label.

### Component heights

The heights of all form components were aligned for consistency. The new size values are:

| Size name | Value |                 Usage                 |
| --------- | :---: | :-----------------------------------: |
| `giga`    | 48px  |       Default for web + mobile        |
| `kilo`    | 32px  |     Dense layout for web + mobile     |
| `byte`    | 24px  | Extreme dense layout for web + mobile |

Here's an overview of how the component heights have changed:

| Component                     | Old default height | New default height |
| ----------------------------- | :----------------: | :----------------: |
| Button and derived components |        40px        |        48px        |
| Input and derived components  |        40px        |        48px        |
| Select                        |        40px        |        48px        |
| Tabs                          |        80px        |        48px        |
| Tag                           |        34px        |        32px        |

We recommend verifying these changes visually at the end of the migration.

> In addition to its increased height, the `Button`'s default size was renamed from `mega` to `giga` to align it with the new size values (see the table above). (🤖 button-default-size)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to its increased height, the `Button`'s default size was renamed from `mega` to `giga` to align it with the new size values (see the table above). (🤖 _button-default-size_)
```

### Other changes

- The **NotificationBanner** component has been renamed to **NotificationCard**. (🤖 _component-names-v3_)

> - Label prop names across components were harmonized to follow the _actionLabel_ pattern. (🤖 label-prop-names)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Label prop names across components were harmonized to follow the _<description>Label_ pattern. (🤖 _label-prop-names_)
```

  - **CardHeader**: `labelCloseButton` 👉 `closeButtonLabel`
  - **Hamburger**: `labelActive` 👉 `activeLabel`, `labelInActive` 👉 `inactiveLabel`
  - **Tag**: `labelRemoveButton` 👉 `removeButtonLabel`
  - **Toggle**: `labelChecked` 👉 `checkedLabel`, `labelUnchecked` 👉 `uncheckedLabel`
- The **TableRow**, **TableHeader** and **TableCell** components are no longer exported. Use the **Table** component instead.
- The **Table**'s custom `onSortBy` method signature has been changed. The `nextDirection` argument moved to the third position (`(index, nextDirection, rows)` 👉 `(index, rows, nextDirection)`) and is now optional (i.e. it can be `undefined` instead of `null` in the previous implementation).

> - The **SelectorGroup**'s `label` is now visible by default, pass `hideLabel` to hide it visually. Its children are now also rendered horizontally by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **SelectorGroup**'s `label` is now visible by default, pass `hideLabel` to hide it visually. Its children are now rendered horizontally by default.
```

> - Default `data-testids` are no longer built into the **Table** and **CardHeader** components. We recommend [querying by role](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about/#priority) in tests instead, for them to resemble how users interact with our applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Default `data-testids` are no longer built into the **Table** and **CardHeader** components. We recommend [querying by role](https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about/#priority) in tests instead to imitate how users interact with our applications.
```

### Cleaning up

Finally, Circuit v3 removes previously deprecated and/or unused features and props. These breaking changes may not affect your application if you've already addressed the deprecation warnings in Circuit v2 minors, but we still recommend going through the list of changes below.

- The deprecated **Spacing** component has been removed. Use the **spacing** style mixin instead.

> - The **ProgressBar**'s deprecated `children` prop has been removed. Use the label prop instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **ProgressBar**'s deprecated `children` prop has been removed. Use the `label` prop instead.
```

- The **Card**'s deprecated `shadow` prop has been removed. Shadows have been replaced by a single outline in an earlier minor version.
- The deprecated `styleHelpers` aggregate is no longer exported. Import each style mixin directly instead.
- The `themePropType` is no longer exported from `@sumup/circuit-ui`. Import it from `@sumup/design-tokens` instead.

> - The deprecated **withComponents** HOC has been removed. Use the **useComponents** hook instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The deprecated `withComponents` HOC has been removed. Use the `useComponents` hook instead.
```

**Edit**: Mhm, I see that you/we've used bold for component names and code for prop names. Not sure what to use here 🤔

Author: Same 😄 I was also unsure so I "decided" to make any exports **bold** and props `code`. What do you think?

Reviewer: Works for me.
